Hi Nicky. How are you?
Hi Prashan I'm doing
great and you?
All the better for starting
another exciting week.
We've looked at text functions,
date functions, what's next?
Actually, we're going
to have a bit of
a break from functions this week,
and we're going to focus
on cell referencing,
and more specifically,
Named Rnamanges.
That is really important
and up to now,
all our formulas have worked
fine with relative
cell referencing.
But obviously that won't
always be the case.
So Nicky, tell us a little
bit about cell referencing.
Well, cell referencing
is how you refer
to as cell in a calculation.
So if I wanted to multiply
the value in B3 by
the value in C3,
my calculation refer to
the cells as B3 and C3.
If I then copy that formula down,
the next calculation
will multiply B4 by C4.
This is called
relative referencing,
and this is why we can copy
calculations in Excel.
The problem is that
sometimes we don't actually
want to use relative positioning
or relative cell referencing.
So if, for example,
I had a rate in D1 and I
wanted to multiply a whole
column by that rate,
as I drag that calculation down,
I don't want D1 to become D2, D3.
I want a way to lock it in place.
Now, what I do is I use an
absolute cell reference,
and we do this by putting a
dollar in front of the D,
and a dollar in front of the one.
There's a great keyboard shortcut
to put those dollars in,
you just need to press
your "F4" function key.
Some people find it confusing
that we need two dollar signs.
Can you please
explain why this is?
Yeah, sure it's a
really good question.
The dollar in front of the
column letter or the D,
locks the column,
whereas the dollar in
front of the number,
or in our example, the one,
locks just the row.
So if, for example, I
just had a dollar
in front of the D,
if I dragged that
calculation across,
it would stay D1, but
if I drag it down,
it will become D1, D2, D3.
This is what we call a
mixed cell reference,
and obviously you can put
the dollar in front of
the column or in front
of just the row.
They're really handy
when you need to
drag a calculation
down and across.
But as well as
relative, absolute,
and mixed references,
we have another way
of referencing cells
called a Named Range.
Can you please
explain what this is?
Yes. As you say,
a Named range is another
way of referencing a cell,
and basically it's where you
give a cell a sensible name.
So if I was there,
I had a discount rate in cell E2,
rather than referring
to it as E2,
I could actually refer
to it as discount rate.
That makes sense, but why
would we want to do this?
Well, for one thing, it makes
our formulas much
easy to understand,
and we'll see in
the videos it also
makes them much easier to create.
Another advantage is
that Named Ranges give us
an absolute cell
reference so we don't
need to worry about the
dollars, which is nice.
But actually the most
important reason
is they support automation,
and actually that's
why they are one of
the most important tools
in our Excel toolkit.
So not just a nice to have,
Named Ranges are a need to know.
So how do we create
a Named Range?
Well, there are few options.
We're going to start
with a really easy one
called the Name Box.
We're then going to use a
tool called Define Name,
which gives us a few more
options, and finally,
we're going to look
at my favorite,
which is Create from Selection,
and this allows us to create
multiple Named Ranges
simultaneously.
What about if we want to
see what ranges you've
created or changed them
or even delete them?
So we're going to
look at a great tool
called the name manager,
which allows us to
do all these things,
and then we'll get stuck into
looking at how we actually
use our Named Ranges to
simplify calculations.
So are we going to do
some calculations?
Yeah, we are. We're
going to look at
two really exciting functions
called COUNTIFS and SUMIFS.
They basically allow us to
summarize or aggregate data.
In this context,
we are going to be
using them to
demonstrate Named Ranges,
but they are excellent
analysis tools.
So I'm happy we're
sneaking them in here.
Once we master
COUNTIFS and SUMIFS,
we'll be able to use AVERAGEIFS,
MAXIFS and MINIFS as well.
One last question,
you mentioned that
name ranges support automation,
now that's really interesting.
Can you explain this
further, please?
Yeah. Well, when you
refer to a ranges B3-B9,
it can only ever be those cells.
So if I now add row
of data in row 10,
my calculations are not going to
pick up those new values.
A Named Range can be redefined.
So if we can find
a way to mitigate
automatically pick up the
new values in row 10,
our calculations
will keep working.
We're going to look at
quite a tricky solution
this week using
dynamic Named Ranges,
but next week we'll see
an even easier
solution using tables.
Thanks Nicky. Our five
topics this week are,
cell referencing and naming,
creating Named Ranges,
managing Named Ranges,
calculations with Named Ranges,
and then automating
processes with Named Ranges.
Don't forget to download
this week's exercise
files and work alongside.
Take some time to check
out the toolbox and cement
those skills with this week's
really interesting
practice challenge.
Now, it's over to you.